---
title: "My history with technology"
date: 2004-02-17T17:08:06-06:00
toc: false
images:
categories:
  - personal
tags: 
  - history
  - about
  - oldsiteimport
---

In the early 1980s I started with my uncles computer, an [Apple
\]\[+](http://www.apple-history.com/frames/body.php?page=gallery&model=aIIplus).
This is where I first started to [peek and
poke](http://www.skepticfiles.org/cowtext/apple/memorytx.htm) my way
around the Apple Basic programming language. I was only around 5 or 6 at
the time.

Then around 1984 my dad bought a Tandy TRS-80 \"portable\" computer with
a 40x25 LCD display. This system had a built in 300bps modem that was
used to transmit orders from my dads company to the warehouse. This is
when I was first introduced to dial up BBSs, and the beginning of my
\"online career\".

In 1985 my family purchased our first \"real\" computer. An [Apple
\]\[e](http://www.apple-history.com/frames/body.php?page=gallery&model=aIIe).
With this computer we purchased a 300bps internal modem and I started to
run my own BBS off my parents phone line in the \"later hours\" of the
evening, so I didn\'t interrupt any of the personal calls during the
day. This system was run off a dual 5 1/4 disk drive.

In 1987 we purchased an [IBM PS/2](http://www.digidome.nl/ibmps.htm)
with 60MB hard drive. I finally got to move my BBS to a system with some
actual storage and started to offer a file download section. Using
free/shareware software purchased from the local computer stores I
created my download repository. This was the beginning of a \"real\"
usable system. At the same time my parents also purchased a phone line
for my own personal use, which I used to make my BBS 24/7/365.

Fast forward to 1995. I started working at [Concentric
Network](http://concentric.net) now [XO Communications](http://xo.com)
in their customer support dept. A few months after working in support I
moved over to become a UNIX admin. A few years later, and just as many
title changes, this is where I continue to work today. I spend most of
my work day researching and developing new hardware and software
solutions for customers and internal admins. My major interests involve
unix systems and network security. This is probably one of the most
interesting areas of research and one of the most over looked areas by
network and system admins.